nuodb/README.md, before:

# NuoDB Example

## Introduction

[NuoDB](https://github.com/nuodb/nuodb-helm-charts) is a distributed SQL management system that uses peer-to-peer messaging to ensure ACID compliance across multiple nodes.

## Prerequisites

You must have a Kubernetes cluster. We recommend using a cluster with 4 nodes, 40vCPUs (10 on each node) and 80GB of memory (20 on each node). Additionally, you will need a local configured copy of `kubectl` as well as the StormForge Optimize controller in your cluster. You can download StormForge Optimize cli [here](https://docs.stormforge.io/getting-started/install/), and then run `redskyctl init` to deploy a controller into your cluster. Additionally, you will also need to install [Helm3](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/), which will be used to install the core NuoDB components.
   
## NuoDB Helm Chart Installation

Before running the experiment, add the NuoDB helm repository to your helm client:

`$ helm repo add nuodb https://storage.googleapis.com/nuodb-charts`

Next, create a dedicated namespace for the NuoDB experiment:

`$ kubectl create namespace nuodb && kubectl config set-context --current --namespace=nuodb`

The NuoDB stack has four charts that need to be installed into your cluster. You can follow these [instructons](https://github.com/nuodb/nuodb-helm-charts/blob/master/stable/README.md), or simply run the following commands to install the core NuoDB components into your cluster:
  
  1. `$ helm install transparent-hugepage nuodb/transparent-hugepage --set cloud.provider=<your-cloud-provider> --set cloud.zones=<your-cloud-zone>`
  2. `$ helm install admin nuodb/admin --set cloud.provider=<your-cloud-provider> --set cloud.zones=<your-cloud-zone>`
  3. `$ helm install storage-class nuodb/storage-class --set cloud.provider=<your-cloud-provider> --set cloud.zones=<your-cloud-zone>`
  4. `$ helm install database nuodb/database --set cloud.provider=<your-cloud-provider> --set cloud.zones=<your-cloud-zone>`

## Resource Tuning

Our goal is to configure the NuoDB resources to achieve the optimal combination of cost and performance. In this experiment we will measure performance using the `duration` template function, which computes the difference between the `.CompletionTime` and `.StartTime` of the Trial job. For our cost metric, we define a template function that maps resource usage of the NuoDB database pods to a monthly US dollar amount. Documentation on StormForge Optimize metrics can be found [here](https://docs.stormforge.io/metrics/).

The NuoDB database chart exposes a host of parameters that can be tuned ([chart documentation](https://github.com/nuodb/nuodb-helm-charts/blob/master/stable/database/README.md)); in this example we are going to tune: `persistence_size`, `sm_cpu`, `sm_memory`, `sm_replicas`, `te_cpu`, `te_memory`, `te_replicas`, where `sm` and `te` refer to the storage and transaction layers of the the NuoDB architecture, respectively.

## Trial Job

Now that we have our NuoDB components deployed in our cluster, we can proceed with running the experiment. The `experiment.yaml` file contains the full specification used by StormForge to optimize the appliction. Each trial consists of a few steps. First, the resources are patched with the updated trial parameter assignments. Once those resources pass readiness checks, we use the Yahoo! Cloud Serving Benchmark (YCSB) tool suite to apply an SQL workload against the database consisting of a 95/5% read/write split.

For more information on running, monitoring and maintaining experiments, please refer to our [quickstart](https://docs.stormforge.io/getting-started/quickstart/) and [experiment lifecycle](https://docs.stormforge.io/lifecycle/) documentation.

Commit message:

added parameter baselines to nuodb recipe

nuodb/README.md, after:

# NuoDB Example

## Introduction

[NuoDB](https://github.com/nuodb/nuodb-helm-charts) is a distributed SQL management system that uses peer-to-peer messaging to ensure ACID compliance across multiple nodes.

## Prerequisites

You must have a Kubernetes cluster. We recommend using a cluster with 4 nodes, 40vCPUs (10 on each node) and 80GB of memory (20 on each node). Additionally, you will need a local configured copy of `kubectl` as well as the StormForge Optimize controller in your cluster. You can download StormForge Optimize cli [here](https://docs.stormforge.io/getting-started/install/), and then run `redskyctl init` to deploy a controller into your cluster. Additionally, you will also need to install [Helm3](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/), which will be used to install the core NuoDB components.
   
## NuoDB Helm Chart Installation

Before running the experiment, add the NuoDB helm repository to your helm client:

`$ helm repo add nuodb https://storage.googleapis.com/nuodb-charts`

Next, create a dedicated namespace for the NuoDB experiment:

`$ kubectl create namespace nuodb && kubectl config set-context --current --namespace=nuodb`

The NuoDB stack has four charts that need to be installed into your cluster. You can follow these [instructons](https://github.com/nuodb/nuodb-helm-charts/blob/master/stable/README.md), or simply run the following commands to install the core NuoDB components into your cluster:
  
  1. `$ helm install transparent-hugepage nuodb/transparent-hugepage --set cloud.provider=<your-cloud-provider> --set cloud.zones=<your-cloud-zone>`
  2. `$ helm install admin nuodb/admin --set cloud.provider=<your-cloud-provider> --set cloud.zones=<your-cloud-zone>`
  3. `$ helm install storage-class nuodb/storage-class --set cloud.provider=<your-cloud-provider> --set cloud.zones=<your-cloud-zone>`
  4. `$ helm install database nuodb/database --set cloud.provider=<your-cloud-provider> --set cloud.zones=<your-cloud-zone>`

## Resource Tuning

Our goal is to configure the NuoDB resources to achieve the optimal combination of cost and performance. In this experiment we will measure performance using the `duration` template function, which computes the difference between the `.CompletionTime` and `.StartTime` of the Trial job. For our cost metric, we define a template function that maps resource usage of the NuoDB database pods to a monthly US dollar amount. Documentation on StormForge Optimize metrics can be found [here](https://docs.stormforge.io/metrics/).

The NuoDB database chart exposes a host of parameters that can be tuned ([chart documentation](https://github.com/nuodb/nuodb-helm-charts/blob/master/stable/database/README.md)); in this example we are going to tune: `sm_cpu`, `sm_memory`, `te_cpu`, `te_memory`, and `te_replicas`, where `sm` and `te` refer to the storage-manager and transaction-engine components of the the NuoDB stack, respectively. We've set the parameter baselines equal to the default limits defined in the helm chart.

## Trial Job

Now that we have our NuoDB components deployed in our cluster, we can proceed with running the experiment. The `experiment.yaml` file contains the full specification used by StormForge to optimize the appliction. Each trial consists of a few steps. First, the resources are patched with the updated trial parameter assignments. Once those resources pass readiness checks, we use the Yahoo! Cloud Serving Benchmark (YCSB) tool suite to apply an SQL workload against the database consisting of a 95/5% read/write split.

For more information on running, monitoring and maintaining experiments, please refer to our [quickstart](https://docs.stormforge.io/getting-started/quickstart/) and [experiment lifecycle](https://docs.stormforge.io/lifecycle/) documentation.
